## From Data Collection to Data Analysis: My 2nd Summer at SEYI ##

My second year in the SEYI Biodiversity internship! Unlike last year, which primarily consisted of intensive data collection of butterflies, this year, we shifted our focus to data analysis, which consists of statistical analyses and coding in R. Upon hearing about this change, I was very excited, for coding and statistics are two of my favorite academic subjects. I was also curious about how these two topics fit in with scientific research. It’s fascinating that the paper we are collaboratively writing this summer will be (hopefully) published in the esteemed journal Paleobiology. Additionally, the number of interns were reduced to 10 and days reduced to 3; while the classroom is seemingly quieter, having fewer interns gives us the opportunity to become a more tight-knit group.

Our first activity on our first official day of the internship was re-creating a Geologic Time Scale, dating back to 4.5 billion years ago! I also made a timescale last year, but I made sure not to repeat the mistake of drawing it to scale; or else, all the major events will be squished to more recent history.  This year, my team and I split the paper into four parts for the PreCambrian, Paleozoic, Mesozoic, and Cenozoic, and made the events to scale within each of these four intervals. 

Another key part of the internship is reading scientific papers. So far, I have read four papers, all discussing the evolution of the body size, physiology, and morphology of marine animals, as well as ecological factors that affect the genera. When we start our projects, we will be taking data used in these papers. From reading countless papers last summer, I find it much easier, compared to the start of the internship last year, to read through the paper and grasp the results and analysis. It’s quite exciting when I come across terms such as “confidence intervals,” “p-value,” or “correlation,” because, after taking a statistics course at school this year, I can genuinely say that I understand what they mean! We have also received personal copies of “Why Size Matters,” so I’m looking forward to more summer reading and discussion.

A new addition this year are the labs. In the afternoons, Noel brings out many fossils and has us go around to each station and make analyses of the organism’s morphology and anatomy based on the fossil provided. So far, we have completed three labs to analyze  Cambrian fossils, Paleozoic fossils (trilobites), and mollusca. My favorite lab was Lab 3, the mollusca. The interns split into two groups, and with a table of dozens of mollusca fossils, we separated the fossils into three groups (bivalves, gastropods aka snails, cepholapods aka squids) based on their appearance and clues given. We then created a phylogeny (like a family tree) for the mollusca. I was mainly responsible for using the packet of information given to dig for clues about the relative age of the mollusca genera and verify the “correctness” (used loosely, for phylogenies are very contentious) of the phylogeny. Amazingly, we correctly categorized most of the fossils into their groups. However, we mixed up a snail shell to be a squid shell; this goes to show that the appearance of fossils can be quite deceiving and requires deeper analysis into the internal anatomy for proper identification.   

Lastly, we have also been practicing programming in R and using github. While I used R last year to construct figures and process data, Noel has provided us with in-depth lessons about the different functionalities of R which allow for more possibilities to implement R in our research this year. Although I have studied other programming languages such as C++, Java, and Python, R is different, for the language is much more simplified and geared toward a specific purpose (aka statistical analyses). However, I have been able to apply my previous knowledge of creating loops and functions to finish R advanced exercises. I tried to re-create a color-coded plot of body sizes of genera across Geologic Time; while it took a lot of brainpower to create line segments and calculate means for a large dataset, I felt so accomplished having written most of the code on my own and seeing the result (shown below). I also learned to use MacDown (somewhat similar to HTML) and push/pull/commit files to github. I’m really happy that these applications were integrated into the program this year, because they are extremelyuseful tools that I plan to use in my future research for analyses and file-sharing.
  
The next few weeks consists of field trips to New Brighton Beach and Pinnacles (YAY), starting the research project, and the same activities described above. I’m mainly excited to start my research (with Noah!) to study the relationship between motility level and body size for marine genera. I’m also eager to explore R’s capabilities in creating informative and beautiful figures for our research. It’s hard to imagine that 30% of the internship has already breezed by, but I’m looking forward to more.



