# My last two weeks... in terms of the food I indulged in at SEYI

Rather than simply stating what I did over my last two weeks, I would like to frame the stories around the food I indulged in at Stanford, frankly because we had so much great food these past weeks.  

**Big Watermelon @ GeoCorner**: I was very excited to hear that Arden, a graduate student in GeoCorner, had brought a huge watermelon to share with everyone. We were in the second to last week of the internship, and truthfully, I was quite burned out from the paper-writing. Noah and I were putting the last finishing touches on our discussion section, and starting our powerpoint for the final-day presentation. Sharing that watermelon with my fellow Biodiversity interns was a much-needed respite from the research.  
**Potluck @ GeoCorner**: An annual tradition for SEYI Biodiversity, the potluck took place outside of GeoCorner on the final Monday. Each person brought an item; I brought mini sodas. We had a multinational feast, from samosas to fried rice to empinadas to cheesecake. Despite the major food-coma that overtook me afterward, the potluck was overall bittersweet, for it was really the last time for the Biodiversity interns to come together.  
**Pizza @ the Farm**: For the past two weeks, I had been anticipating the pizza on the Farm and it exceeded my expectations! When I first arrived, I was shocked by the chickens that were running free around the farm; my favorite was Blondie, the perfect yellow chicken. The Farm events coordinator then gave us a spiel about the importance of the Farm to Stanford culture; after all, Stanford was originally a Farm. We then split into three stations, and luckily, my group was the first to make pizza! All the produce were sourced from the Farm and although I’m not a huge fan of tomatoes, the Farm-tomato-sauce was impeccable. After baking in a classic fire oven, I enjoyed the pizza with my fellow interns. Following lunch, we listened to Aaron, a Stanford undergraduate, talk about his research at the Farm, where he uses sensors to monitor the watering of soil. I was so impressed, because he was double major-ing in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, in addition to minor-ing in Statistics, subjects I love! Lastly, we got to hear about Nic’s research with the fungi. I had never known about the power of fungi to serve as medicine and building material.  
**Giant Burrito @ Mitchell**: The last day of the internship, the interns, supervisors, and programs coordinators enjoyed a feast of a giant burrito, fruits and salad, and cookies. More importantly, everyone had the chance to present their projects. I really appreciate how Jenny emphasized an “informal” presentation environment, which allowed me to feel more relaxed and present better to my peers. Unlike last year's poster presentation, we simply made powerpoint slides and presented pair-by-pair in the conference room. I was so happy to hear that Jenny and Noel loved the infographics on the presentation; I did have a lot of fun embellishing my presentation with them. It was exciting to hear about the other intern’s extremely impressive research over the summer. In the end, I was very sad to leave my fellow interns, especially my Biodiversity group, because I really felt that we had become a tight-knit family. I am looking forward to continue working on the paper, and I am optimistic that within a year, it will be published in Paleobiology!  

I would like to say final thank you’s to some very special people from this summer…

**Noel** -- Thank you for being the best mentor I could have possibly asked for. I can speak for the other interns that your dedication to your/our research (+ your desserts) made our experience unforgettable.  
**Jenny** — Thank you for coordinating everything— from the field trips to Thursday presentations, I have learned so much both about earth sciences and myself.  
**Nic**— Thank you for checking on the well-being of the interns
**Jon Payne** — Thank you for lending us your lab and giving us feedback on our presentations.  
**Loc** — Thank you for being my Caltrain buddy and giving me so much confidence! I will never forget you and will definitely come visit you in South San Jose.  
**Ameya** — Thank you for stressing about college and Lynbrook with me; I regret that we had never talked to each other before the program.  
**The rest of Biodiversity** — Thank you for being such a fun, interesting, and uplifting group to spend my summer days with.  